well the leader of lebanon's Hezbollah
terror group has broken his silence
about the Hamas attacks on Israel Hassan
nazrah praised the operation and said
his militia is engaged in unprecedented
crossborder fighting with Israel he
stopped short of saying hesah would
fully join the war but warned that a
wider Middle East conflict is a
realistic possibility large crowds
turned out in the Lebanese Capital
bayout to hear this widely anticipated
speech Hezbollah is backed by Iran and
is classified by the US and Germany as a
terror
organization as R said the October 7th
attacks on Israel were carefully
planned this decision to carry out this
operation was 100% Palestinian and it
was carried out by
Palestinians the ones who planned it
kept it secret from everyone including
the different resistance factions within
Gaza they also hid it from other
countries and the access of
resistance the fact that no one knew
about it proves that this battle is
completely
Palestinian the Palestinian
people and has no relation to any
Regional or even International
issue
our correspondent Aman in the Lebanese
Capital Beirut followed that speech and
I asked him whether nazala said anything
to suggest that Hezbollah is moving
towards an allout attack on Israel the
short answer so far is no All Eyes in
Lebanon were on the speech some
expecting him to make an allout
declaration of war on Israel but that
didn't happen what he did say was that
while a lot of people were expecting him
to say that Hezbollah was going to enter
the battle alongside uh Hamas uh
militants uh we already we meaning
Hezbollah already entered that battle on
October the 8th what he's referring to
is basically the status quo that has
arisen on the border between Lebanon and
Israel where almost daily Hezbollah
sends Rockets into Israeli territory uh
Israel sends Rockets back into Lebanese
territory but all within the bounds of
an unofficial uh unofficial Rules of
Engagement uh not risking escalation uh
but what has come out of the speech
while it might not be an escalation
while it might be maintaining some kind
of status quo fully supporting Hamas uh
he says but not escalating further uh we
are actually going to be looking to
what's happening on the ground to see if
uh the if the conflict escalates further
because there's a lot that can go wrong
when a daily fire between Israel and
Lebanon becomes the normal On the Border
there the Lebanon is a is a is in a
strange political situation uh the the
economy in tatters and Hezbollah
operating effectively autonomously
within its territory the the government
there and it need people on the ground
must be uh worried about being dragged
into this
War I can't stress enough how anxious
most Lebanese I've talked to are about
this conflict I would say in most of my
conversations the the majority the vast
majority have no interest in getting
involved in a war with Israel a far
superior economy far superior military
which has ended in disaster for a lot of
residents here in Beirut the last times
that they got involved in a conflict but
what's interesting here is Hezbollah
which is just a minority political party
with a mil powerful military Wing
supported by by Iran while it's just a
minority it has amazing power over the
future of Lebanon we we saw that the
speech by the the Secretary General of
Hezbollah today was looked at as what's
going to happen in the next days is
Lebanon going to war with Israel or not
uh so there's not a lot that lebanes can
do in this political situation in this
financial crisis which has been going on
for four at least four years now there's
not a lot they can do uh to protect
themselves against a war with Israel and
that gives Hezbollah uh outsized Power
in this situation so a lot of Lebanese
are feeling a bit reassured by this uh
Speech where he said that we've already
entered the battle we're not going to
escalate further that's the implications
of his speech so far and a further
complicating factor of course is that
Hamas has a presence in southern Lebanon
um how explain to us how that
complicates
things that's right Hamas is not a
political presence in uh Lebanon but
there are so many Palestinian refugees
many of whom came in 1948 when they were
expelled uh from the territories that
are now president Israel and the
Palestinian territories uh and within
these uh refugee camps which we visited
yesterday you have more and more support
for Hamas a lot of Palestinian militants
have been leaving these refugee camps
going to the border and firing their own
Rockets into Israel now where Hezbollah
explicitly says it's only firing on
Israeli military establishments across
the border uh Hamas does not make that
distinction has actually fired Rockets
into civilian in Israel and this
presents another danger for the
escalation in the region uh with just
another military presence On the Border
that's not controlled by a Unified
Government here in this country thanks
for that Aman in
Beirut